# SluggersDerby

Sluggers Derby was a much bigger endeavor than I originally anticipated. I had all of these extra ideas in mind that I wanted to incorporate, but little did I realize how much effort would be spent in the mechanics and physics of the actual game. This assignment has really made me appreciate the work that goes into video games. Not even just modern video games, but the early generations of computer and console games. Unfortunately, I had to give myself an extra day to work on this project, but I can confidently say it gave me a lot of breathing room to work out most of the kinks. This is my final version of Sluggers Derby! Now, like most games aren’t, I would not consider this game complete. I still have so many ideas I’d like to add, but the scope of time did not permit it, for now. That being said, here are some deviations from my original one-pager, as well as some things I got excited about when creating Sluggers Derby.

Reading back on my one-pager, I really wanted to copy Flick Home Run. I think as I began to make progress on Sluggers Derby, solely by coming up with my own style, I really deviated away from duplicating it. Now, I don’t have the cool bat store, or color variations of baseballs, but the time it would’ve taken me to create those kinds of features let me perfect the game’s mechanics. Now a brief overview of the rules: aim the bat by moving the mouse, swing the bat by left clicking—hitting a red balloon with the ball is worth 50pts, a gold balloon is 200pts. If the player’s ball hits the stadium, it’s a normal home run which is 500pts, while an out of the park hit is worth 750pts. Every game, the player gets 10 pitches to hit, however, every 1500pts the player accumulates, grants them another pitch. The main goal is to get the highest score possible. This was a more feasible system I came up with. This deviates from the timer system I had planned. When it came down to it, I realized sometimes the ball takes a while to fall to the ground. If a user hit a really high pop-fly, they would lose a lot of playing time. The pitch counter made more sense. In terms of assets, I was unable to find a pitching machine asset anywhere online, so I resorted to using a glove asset as a placeholder. It fits, but yeah… it’s not a pitching machine. I also didn’t find much reason to incorporate a bat swoosh as, unlike FlickHomeRun, you can see the bat itself, so no swoosh is needed to see where you’re swinging. One thing I would critique myself on is I definitely needed to make the world bigger. Half of the times I scored a home run it hit the barrier after the out of the park area.

Now, some things that I loved about making this game was solving the mechanics issues, as well as building the environment. The mechanics were very tricky to piece together. I found a lot of examples online, but no one was quite doing exactly what I was. When it came down to the launch physics for once the bat hit the ball, I had to turn to chatGPT for help. There were a lot of components it recommended that I wouldn’t have thought of myself. I don’t like resorting to it, but it helped. The first time I played the game and the ball actually went in a smooth path from where I hit it, it absolutely blew my mind. The collisions were another big mountain to conquer too, but I was so happy with the ball physics. The actual world of Sluggers Derby was so much fun to build as well. You don’t realize how much world building goes into a game until you make one. I started off with a simple dirt and grass asset for the ground, then a fence asset, then a score board, then clouds, then a whole out of the park city… you get the point. Your imagination gets to go on and on. Then you can get into the audio clips as well. Connecting a bat crack sound to the bat and ball collision is so satisfying. Or having a balloon pop sound whenever the ball goes through a balloon—asides from points, it adds a rewarding factor to the game.

I absolutely enjoyed this project.

P.S. I was unable to upload assets to the git hub, so if you would like to see them for any reason, please reach out!
